      Documentation                                                                             

 Email & Calendars overview                                                           Search




Email & Calendars overview

The Unipile Email API is designed to offer a robust and secure connection to your users' email inboxes,
ensuring seamless access to both historical and real-time email data. This API supports comprehensive bi-
directional synchronization with full CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) functionalities for a wide range
of email providers. Featuring a user-friendly REST interface, the Unipile Email API enables you to execute
various operations effectively:

    Retrieve details from email messages and threads, including the content of the message, details
    about the sender and recipients, and other relevant information.
    Efficiently organize email inboxes by utilizing labels and folders.
    Modify the status of email messages, such as marking them as unread or starring them for
    importance.
    Send email directly through the API.
    Searches within inboxes to locate specific emails or content.
    Handle and download attachments associated with emails.

With Google and Microsoft accounts, you can also use the Calendar API to:

    Retrieve and manage calendars and events
    Create events with attendees and an online meeting link
    Receive webhook notifications for events


Google and Microsoft OAuth Setup
Unipile is compatible with all email providers, including those based on IMAP protocols, without the need
for any preliminary configuration. An important step of emails integration in your application, it's
necessary you create a application directly on your Google and Microsoft account to got your own OAuth
screen to login your users. After creating these applications, you should store the corresponding
credentials in the Unipile Dashboard. When your development is finished you need to start verification
process from Google who can take weeks before start production.

To gain a comprehensive understanding of this process, you can refer to the Google provider integration
guide and the Microsoft provider integration guide, tailored for Unipile API.
Email deliverability
In most cases, major email providers like Google, Microsoft, and IMAP providers automatically configure
DKIM, SPF and eventually DMARC when users set up their internal email systems. If you're simply creating
a system for email sync and manual sending from your app, you can bypass managing these settings. Just
instruct users to connect their email, ensuring they experience the same delivery results as with Outlook
or Gmail.

However, if your system involves outreach or automatic sending at higher volumes, it's advisable to verify
the proper configuration of these parameters to ensure optimal deliverability at scale.

If your company domain sends more than 5000 emails daily to Google or Yahoo, you need to maintain an
abuse complaint rate of 0.3% or lower, or all company emails will be blocked by Google.

All traffic for your domain is included in this limit: newsletters, notifications, internal emails, etc.


 Updated about 1 month ago



 Tracking email                                                                           Microsoft OAuth 




                                   Did this page help you?     Yes      No
